..  SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause
    Copyright (c) 2021-2025 Intel Corporation.

CNDP First Public Release 22.04
===============================

New Features
------------
* **Update CNI to do ethtool filter programming**
* **Add --no-color option to cndpfwd to remove color text**
* **Moved K8s device plugin to separate repo**
* **Added alternative to docker with CRI-O and Podman support**
* **Added support to allow CNDP to be built on Alpine Linux containers**
* **Update the documentation for public release, API documentation and guides**
* **xdpdev API has been deprecated, removed documentation and references**
* **Added better logging support for k8s container systems**
* **Fixed many minor bugs, increased performance and other improvements**
* **Add first draft of CNDP go-binding routines**

Some notable changes
--------------------
* CNET stack depends on libnl3. On Ubuntu, the libnl-3-dev and libnl-cli-3-dev packages are
  required to build CNDP.
* The cnet-quic example application use quicly (https://github.com/h2o/quicly.git) library to
  demonstrate a simple QUIC application using the CNET stack.
* The k8s device plugin is moved to its own repo (https://github.com/intel/afxdp-plugins-for-kubernetes)
* Deprecated xdpdev APIs

Known Issues
-------------
* CNET stack assumes a single IP address per logical port, which means a 1:1 mapping between IP
  address and hardware queue. This is counter-intuitive to the way IP addresses are typically
  assigned, where a single IP address is assigned to a device which has many queues.
* Lport groups jcfg creates a single umem per lport-group, but it should create a single umem
  for all the lports in all the lport-groups.
* Lport group jcfg processing fails for two groups which map devices onto the same thread.

Limitations
------------
* Still need to use a full netdev (Physical Function) with CNDP at this time. Support for
  Virtual Functions and Sub-devices will follow in later releases.
* Logical port groups support is under active development. Logical port groups can be used with
  this release, but eventually the functionality with be integrated with the existing logical port
  JSON decoder.

Tested Platforms System information
-----------------------------------
* **CPU = Intel(R) Xeon(R) Gold 6139 CPU @ 2.30GHz**
* **BIOS = SE5C620.86B.00.01.0015.110720180833**
* **Baseboard = Intel S2600WFQ**
* **OS  = Ubuntu 20.04.4 LTS (Focal Fossa)**
* **Kernel = 5.4.0-89-generic**

Tested NICs
------------
#. **Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation Ethernet Controller XL710 for 40GbE QSFP+ (rev 02)**

   - driver: i40e
   - version: 2.8.20-k
   - firmware-version: 6.01 0x800035da 1.1747.0
